Chore/add identity 1.3 (#1555)
iotaledger/iota-wiki: docs/build/identity.rs/1.3/docs/how-tos/verifiable-credentials/zero-knowledge-selective-disclosure.mdx

---
sidebar_label: Zero Knowledge Selective Disclosure
description: Zero Knowledge selectively disclosable VCs.
image: /img/Identity_icon.png
tags:
  - verifiable
  - credentials
  - Zero Knowledge
  - Disclosure
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Zero Knowledge Selective Disclosure (ZK-SD-VCs)
ZK-SD-VCs allow holders to verify their VCs without having to disclose to verifiers the entire VC's claim set. 
This is done through the creation of a Zero Knowledge Proof (ZKP) that guaranties the integrity and authenticity
of the VC, even when only partially disclosed to the verifier.

:::note
Although ZK-SD-VCs offer similar functionalities to [SD-JWT VCs](../selective-disclosure) - at least on a high level - they rely on completely different

> concepts and security concerns. For an user, the most notable difference is the shifted capability of choosing which fields can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
concepts and security concerns. For a user, the most notable difference is the shifted capability of choosing which fields can
```

be concealed from a verifier. For ZK-SD-VCs it's the holder that has total control over which parts of the credential can be 
undisclosed, whereas for SD-JWT VCs it's the issuer that decides which fields may be concealed by the holder.
:::

## Concepts
### Issuance

> The issuer of a ZK-SD-VC creates the credential, signs it using the [BBS+](https://identity.foundation/bbs-signature/draft-irtf-cfrg-bbs-signatures.html) signature scheme

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The issuer of a ZK-SD-VC creates the credential, signs it using the [BBS+](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-irtf-cfrg-bbs-signatures-05.html) signature scheme
```

> The issuer of a ZK-SD-VC creates the credential, signs it using the [BBS+](https://identity.foundation/bbs-signature/draft-irtf-cfrg-bbs-signatures.html) signature scheme

Reviewer 2: https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-irtf-cfrg-bbs-signatures-05.html

and sends both the credential and the signature to the holder. To facilitate this process, the credential is first encoded 
as a [JSON Proof Token](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-jose-json-proof-token-02.html) (JPT), which is then used as the payload of a 

> [JSON Web Proof](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-jmiller-jose-json-web-proof-00.html) (JWP) and sent to the holder as JPT. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[JSON Web Proof](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-jose-json-web-proof-02.html) (JWP) and sent to the holder as JPT. 
```

> [JSON Web Proof](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-jmiller-jose-json-web-proof-00.html) (JWP) and sent to the holder as JPT. 

Reviewer 2: This is the correct link: https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-jose-json-web-proof-02.html

:::note
JWPs and JPTs can be reasoned about as the Zero Knowledge (ZK) based counterparts of JWSs and JWTs.
:::
In code, this process would look like the following snippet:
<Tabs groupId="language" queryString>
<TabItem value="rust" label="Rust">

```rust reference

> https://github.com/iotaledger/identity.rs/blob/feat/jpt-bbs%2B-sd/examples/1_advanced/9_zkp.rs#L114-L141

Reviewer: (This and the following snippets should be updated as soon as the PR has been merged.)

    "NDI"
  ],
  "issuer": "eyJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2lzc3Vlci50bGQiLCJjbGFpbXMiOlsiZmFt
  aWx5X25hbWUiLCJnaXZlbl9uYW1lIiwiZW1haWwiLCJhZ2UiXSwidHlwIjoiSlBUIiw
  icHJvb2ZfandrIjp7ImNydiI6IlAtMjU2Iiwia3R5IjoiRUMiLCJ4IjoiYWNiSVFpdU
  1zM2k4X3VzekVqSjJ0cFR0Uk00RVUzeXo5MVBINkNkSDJWMCIsInkiOiJfS2N5TGo5d
  ldNcHRubUt0bTQ2R3FEejh3Zjc0STVMS2dybDJHekgzblNFIn0sInByZXNlbnRhdGlv
  bl9qd2siOnsiY3J2IjoiUC0yNTYiLCJrdHkiOiJFQyIsIngiOiJvQjFUUHJFX1FKSUw
  2MWZVT09LNURwS2dkOGoyemJaSnRxcElMRFRKWDZJIiwieSI6IjNKcW5ya3VjTG9ia2
  RSdU9xWlhPUDlNTWxiRnllbkZPTHlHbEctRlBBQ00ifSwiYWxnIjoiU1UtRVMyNTYif
  Q",
  "proof": "LJMiN6caEqShMJ5jPNts8OescqNq5vKSqkfAdSuGJA1GyJyyrfjkpAG0c
  DJKZoUgomHu5MzYhTUsa0YRXVBnMB91RjonrnWVsakfXtfm2h7gHxA_8G1wkB09x09k
  on2eK9gTv4iKw4GP6Rh02PEIAVAvnhtuiShMnPqVw1tCBdhweWzjyxJbG86J7Y8MDt2
  H9f5hhHIwmSLwXYzCbD37WmvUEQ2_6whgAYB5ugSQN3BjXEviCA__VX3lbhH1RVc27E
  YkRHdRgGQwWNtuExKz7OmwH8oWizplEtjWJ5WIlJpee79gQ9HTa2QIOT9bUDvjjkkO-
  jK_zuDjZwh5MkrcaQ",
  "presentation": "eyJub25jZSI6InVURUIzNzFsMXB6V0psN2FmQjB3aTBIV1VOaz
  FMZS1iQ29tRkx4YThLLXMifQ"
}
```

### Verification

The verifier decodes the received JPT presentation and asserts the validity of the ZKP it contains, thus proving the

> authenticity and integrity of the presented credential, without knowledge of any of the undisclosed fields.

Reviewer 2: ...without knowledge of any of the undisclosed fields and of the issuer signature.

> authenticity and integrity of the presented credential, without knowledge of any of the undisclosed fields.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
authenticity and integrity of the presented credential, without knowledge of any of the undisclosed fields and of the issuer signature.
```
